Real Madrid: Real Madrid Club de Fútbol is a Spanish club based in Madrid, Spain. Unanimously considered the biggest club of all time, the club boasts a record 15 UEFA Champions League titles, a record 36 La Liga titles amongst various other honors totaling over 100. Founded in 1902 as Madrid Football Club, the club has traditionally worn a white home kit since its inception and currently plays at the Estadio Santiago Bernabeu. 
Madrid was never been relegated from La Liga since its inception in 1929 and holds long-standing rivalries with Barcelona and Atletico Madrid. The club became a dominant European force come the mid-50s and throughout the 60s opening the European Cup era with a monopolistic 5-peat courtesy of a star-studed team of Alfredo Di Stefano, Ferenc Puskas, Paco Gento and Raymond Kopa. The club would go on to house some of the biggest names the sport has ever seen including but not limited to Ronaldo, Zinedine Zidane, Luis Figo and Cristiano Ronaldo.
Real Madrid earned the name Galácticos in the mid-2000s and early 2010s, when President Florentino Perez assembled star-studed teams with unprecendented aggression in the transfer market. Named the greatest football club of the 20th century by FIFA and IFFHS, Madrid hold uncontested UCL records in appearances, wins, points, trophies, minutes, and participations. Madrid is the only club to complete 3-peats in two different centuries. 
Often known for their resilience and mentality, Real Madrid are widely known to have completed the greatest comebacks in the game, to the point where it's become synonymous with the club's character. Real Madrid have also faced several allegations of corruption including but not limited to match scandals, breaches of financial fairplay and briberies to match officials and league executives. 
Madrid hold more than twice as many UCLs as any other European club as of 2024 when they completed their 15th at Wembley.
The club participates in ESL as a direct invitee and is quoted as the bookmaker's pre-season favorite at +600 American odds.   

Bayern Munich: Fußball-Club Bayern München e. V, commonly known as FC Bayern or simply Bayern is a German football club based in Munich, Bavaria. Often considered the second greatest club, after Real Madrid, Bayern are the most successful club in German football having won a record 33 national league titles, which includes an 11-peat from 2013-2023. Bayern have won 6 UEFA Champions League alongside having the second most goals, games played, semifinal appearances, final appearances and various other records.
Founded in 1900 by Franz John, Bayern would go on to only win its first national championship in 1932. During the Third Reich, several Bayern coaches, players and executives were fired and replaced given its predominantly Jewish origins. Bayern's greatest era would come in the 1970s where they would complete a European Cup 3-peat alongside numerous other international and domestic honors under captaincy of Franz Beckenbauer and a studded team of Gerd Muller, Sepp Maier, Uli Hoeneß and Franz Roth. For Beckenbauer's contributions to Bayern and the German national team, he iws often considered the greatest defender of all time and the biggest figure ever in German football.
Since the beginning of the 2005–06 season, Bayern has played its home games at the Allianz Arena. Previously, the team had played at Munich's Olympiastadion for 33 years. The team colours are red and white, and the crest shows the white and blue flag of Bavaria. Bayern Munich has the largest revenue out of any German sports club and the third highest-earning football club in the world, behind Barcelona and Real Madrid, earning €634.1 million in 2021.
Bayern Munich is the only club in Europe to complete both a sextuple and a UCL-threepeat. Bayern also house the best player in the world currently in Jamal Musiala.
The club participates in ESL as a direct invitee from the European commission via the DFB and is quoted as a top 3 pre-season favorite as per bookmakers.

FC Barcelona: FC Barcelona, colloquially known as Barca, is a professional football club based in Barcelona, Catalonia. Considered one of the greatest clubs of all time, Barcelona are statistically one of the world's most decorated clubs with 27 La Liga titles, record 31 Copa del Reys, 15 Supercopa de Espanas and other honors. While historically overshadowed in Europe by their El Classico rival, Barcelona have nevertheless boasted several dominant spells against Real Madrid both domestically and continent-wide particularly in the early 190s and late 2010s.
Founded in 1899 by a group of Swiss, Catalan, German, and English footballers led by Joan Gamper, the club has become a symbol of Catalan culture and Catalanism, hence the motto "Més que un club" ("More than a club"). Unlike most other clubs in the modern sporting ecosystem, Barcelona are fully owned and operated by the supporters. Barcelona traditionally play in dark shades of blue and garnet stripes, hence nicknamed Blaugrana.
One of the most widely supported sporting teams in the world, Barcelona entered their true golden age in the late 2000s with the arrival of manager Pep Guardiola. In the following years, Barcelona would go on to create the greatest dynasty in club football history bagging 14 trophies in the span of 4 years including a continental treble as part of a sextuple. In Lionel Messi's era, Barelona would win 10 La Liga titles, severaly damaging Real Madrid's league record and performances. Barcelona are known to place great emphasis on play-style as much as trophies revolutionizing the "tiki-taka" system, an evolved form of total football played by the Dutch national team and Ajax in the late 20th century.
Barcelona is the club that has housed the most ballon-dor wins, totaling 12 across the last 65 years. In recent times, Barcelona have faced severe financial injuries to the club's corporate health as well as corruption charges. The club activated various levers as last ditch attempts to rescue its indebted situation and is yet to fully recover to the peak of its powers. Nevertheless, there are signs of rejuvenation with bright young players and consistent attacking performances. Barca are also often considered to be one of the best at producing young talent at their own academy rivaled only by the counterparts of Ajax and select Portugese ones like Benfica and Sporting. Named La Masia, Spanish for "Farmhouse", it has produced Pep Guardiola, Lionel Messi, Xavi, Andres Iniesta, Sergio Busquets and Lamine Yamal.
Widely considered to have played the most attractive football of all time, Guardiola's Barcelona and their tiki taka greatly evolved the depth of attacking football giving rise to various tactical systems in the 2010s and encouraging several managers continent-wide to adapt to the transforming ecosystem. The Messi-Xavi-Iniesta triangle is still considered to be the gold-standard of attacking play and pass-progression through low-blocks and mid-blocks.
The club participates in ESL as a direct invitee from the European commission via the Spanish federation and is quoted as a top 5 pre-season favorite as per bookmakers.

Liverpool: Liverpool Football Club, commonly just Liverpool, is a professional football club based in Liverpool, England. Widely heralded as England's greatest club ever, Liverpool boasts a nation-record 6 UEFA Champions Leagues alongside 20 league titles amidst various other domestic and international honours as of 2025. Founded in 1892 by the dock-workers of west Merseyside, the club has played its home games at Anfield since its formation. 
With nineteen league titles and eight FA cups, the club is only rivaled by Manchester United in its domestic honors list. Liverpool has historically shared a intimate relationship with its local fans and despite globalization Liverpool maintains an extraordinarily high density of Scouse support in contrast with clubs of identical size, whose foreign fanaticism has equalled if not superseded its local equivalent. Liverpool is famous for its anthem "You'll Never Walk Alone", YNWA, rendered prior to all home games starting. As the birthplace of the Beatles, several renditions of "Hey Jude", "Here Comes the Sun" and "Blackbird" are played during and after games.
Liverpool established itself as a dominant force in English football in the 1960s under then coach Bill Shankly, before becoming perennial title challengers at home and abroad under legendary manager Bob Paisley and players Joe Fagan and Kenny Dalglish. The Paisley-Fagan-Dalglish combination contributed to eleven league titles and four European Cups through the 1970s and 1980s. Liverpool's dominance would fade slowly as their eternal rivals in Man United would rise through the 90s becoming England's major force. In what is called the 'Scouse Draught", Liverpool failed to win a league title for 30 long years spanning from 1990 to 2020, a time that saw Manchester United overtake Liverpool in first division titles.
Despite the draught, Liverpool did win the UEFA Champions League in 2005 in what is considered the greatest final of all time, completing a miracle 3-3 comeback in Istanbul. Their league draught would end in 2020 when Jurgen Klopp's Reds would finish the season in style with 99 points securing the title in early April. Liverpool fans faced a frustrating string of near-mis second-placed finishes through the late 2010s and early 2020s, courtesy of a developing rivalry with Manchester City who were setting numerous records under Pep Guardiola.
The Reds compete in the local Merseyside derby against fellow Liverpool club Everton, often referred to simply as "The Blues". 
The club's supporters have been involved in two major tragedies. The Heysel Stadium disaster, where escaping fans were pressed against a collapsing wall at the 1985 European Cup Final in Brussels, resulted in 39 deaths, most of which were Italians and Juventus fans. Liverpool were given a six-year ban from European competitions, and all other English clubs received a five-year ban. The Hillsborough disaster in 1989, where 97 Liverpool supporters died in a crowd crush against perimeter fencing, led to the elimination of fenced standing terraces in favour of all-seater stadiums in the top two tiers of English football.
The club participants in ESL as a direct invitee from the English FA as per coefficient rankings.

AC Milan: Associazione Calcio Milan, or more commonly AC Milan, is an Italian professional football club based in Milan, Lombardy. Founded in 1899 by English expatriate Herbert Kilpin, the club played its home games in several different grounds before officially migrating to what would then be its eternal stadium in San Siro. Due to is English origin, the club retained the English spelling of "Milan" for most of its history with the exception of Benito Mussolini's rule in fascist Italy through the 20s and 30s.
As the club with the second most Champions Leagues of all time, Milan is widely considered to be one of the greatest European clubs ever. Domestically, Milan has won 19 league titles, 5 Coppa Italia titles and 8 Supercoppa Italiana titles. Milan's first European triumph would come in 1963 where Rocco's Milan defeated Riera's Benfica. Despite sucess in the 60s, there was a profound period of decline through the 70s and early 80s. Milan would however go on to place themselves as Europe's foremost power after the aforementioned period concluded. Entrepreneur Silvio Berlusconi acquired Milan, saving it from bankruptcy and igniting a period of unprecedented success after appointing Arrigo Sacchi. 
Milan would go on to sign several Dutch internationals, namely Frank Rijkaard, Marco Van Basten and Ruud Gullit. The Dutch attack complemented what is often considered the greatest defensive lineup ever in Italians Paulo Maldini, Franco Baresi and Alessandro Costacurta. This team would go on to earn their nickname "Immortals" in Italian legacy media. Further European success would follow under Capello in the early 90s and Carlo Ancelotti in the 2000s, marginally placing AC Milan even ahead of Real Madrid's as Europe's most powerful club for select intervals at the time. Despite monstrous European dominance, Milan surprisingly ceded several of those seasons domestically to rivals Juventus. 
Milan's main rivalry is with its neighbour club, Inter Milan. Both clubs meet in the widely anticipated Derby della Madonnina twice every Serie A season. The name of the derby refers to the Blessed Virgin Mary, whose statue atop the Milan Cathedral is one of the city's main attractions. The rivalry with Juventus F.C. is a rivalry between the two most titled teams in Italy. The challenge confronts also two of the clubs with the greater basin of supporters as well as those with the greatest turnover and stock market value in the country
2007 would be the last year AC Milan win a Champions League or even make an appearance at the final. With their greatest players retiring and poor recruitment strategies, an equally devastating domestic decline would follow. A league drought would begin after 2012 for over a decade, a period during which Juventus firmly placed themselves as Italy's greatest force setting numerous records. AC Milan's downfall has been studied by experts and institutions alike in what is considered a disturbingly unpredictable turnout of events in its constant decline since 2007. Despite an anomalous league title in 2022, the club has shown zero signs of a full-fledged recovery to its mid-2000s self. For this reason, AC Milan is heralded as a fallen giant and is no more considered a top ten valuable club in Europe.
The club participants in ESL as a direct invitee from the Lega Serie A as per historical club size.

Manchester United: Manchester United Football Club, commonly referred to as Man United, is a professional football club based in Old Trafford, Greater Manchester. icknamed the Red Devils, they were founded as Newton Heath LYR Football Club in 1878, but changed their name to Manchester United in 1902. After a spell playing in Clayton, Manchester, the club moved to their current stadium, Old Trafford, in 1910.
A strong domestic force, Manchester United have won a record 20 top-flight league titles, 13 FA Cups, 6 League Cups and a record 21 FA Community Shields. Appointed as manager in 1945, Matt Busby built a team with an average age of just 22 nicknamed the Busby Babes that won successive league titles in the 1950s and became the first English club to compete in the European Cup. ight players were killed in the Munich air disaster, but Busby rebuilt the team around star players George Best, Denis Law and Bobby Charlton – known as the United Trinity. They won two more league titles before becoming the first English club to win the European Cup in 1968.
After Busby's retirement, Manchester United were incapable of replicating his success for a long period of 20 years that saw long-standing rival Liverpool blossom domestically and internationally. Following Atkinson's dismissal in 1986, Manchester United appointed Scottish manager Alex Ferguson from Aberdeen, setting the stage for a three-decade dynasty with unprecednted domestic domination. Alongside 13 Premier League titles, the club also won 2 UEFA Champions Leagues under Sir Alex, alongside two finals (both of which they lost to Guardiola's Barcelona). Manchester United was the first English club to complete the continental treble, a feat which was recently completed again by local rivals Manchester City.
Manchester United also completed the European double in 2007-08, as part of a Premier League three-peat and featuring an inaugural ballondor win for Cristiano Ronaldo. Akin to AC Milan, Manchester United has hard a permanent period of decline and downswing since Alex Ferguson failing to win the Premier League or Champions League in the years that followed.
In recent years, Manchester United has failed severly at recruitment, financial management, contractual decisions and success on the pitch to the point that they've become a focal point of meme culture in England and Europe alike. Statistics show the Manchester United have been the most offended club on social media for the past decade or so. They've suffered several embarassing defeats to long-standing rivals Liverpool and derby-rivals Manchester City over recent years, with several of Fergie's records being overhauled by Pep Guardiola and Manchester City. Despite hiring a string of decorated managers in Louis Van Gaal, Jose Mourinho, Eric Ten hag and Ralf Ragnick amidst others like Ole Gunnar Solksjaer and David Moyes, the club has consistently struggled to find season-long consistency and deliver in big games.
The club participants in ESL as a direct invitee from the English FA as per historical club size.